passes/lang30.md, before:

## L30 Language

```grammar
.extends lang4
```

Continuations are gone, and locals are scoped to procedures:

```grammar
procdef -= (ProcDef <type_id> (Continuations <continuation>+))
procdef += (ProcDef <type_id> (Locals <type_id>*) <single_stmt>)
```

Control-flow statements appear in a normal statement context:

```grammar
single_stmt ::= (Stmts <stmt>+)
            |  <stmt>

choice -= (Choice <intVal> <goto>)
        | (Choice <floatVal> <goto>)
        | (Choice <intVal> <intVal> <goto>)
        | (Choice <floatVal> <floatVal> <goto>)

choice += (Choice <intVal> <single_stmt>)
        | (Choice <floatVal> <single_stmt>)

stmt += (Block <single_stmt>)
      | (Loop <single_stmt>)
      | (If <value> <single_stmt> <single_stmt>?)
      | (Case <type_id> <simple> <choice>+)
      | (CheckedCall <proc> <value>*)
      | (CheckedCall <type_id> <value>+)
      | (CheckedCallAsgn <local> <proc> <value>*)
      | (CheckedCallAsgn <local> <type_id> <value>+)
      | (Return <value>?)
      | (Raise <value>)
      | (Unreachable)
```

*Future consideration:* If-then-else support could be removed, which would
reduce the IL's surface area and make translation slightly simpler.

`Break` is used to break out of an enclosing `Block`, `Loop`, `If`, or `Case`.
A depth value of '0' refers to the most enclosing block.

```grammar
stmt += (Break depth:<int>)
```

*Rationale:* allowing `Break` to target `If` and `Case` makes translation
simpler and removes the need for some `Block`s.

Commit message:

implement the `L25` intermediate language (#52)
## Summary

Add the `L25` language and integrate it into the pass pipeline. The
`L25` features a flat procedure structure and goto-esque control-flow,
without using a basic block structure and SSA yet. It comes after `L30`
and before `L4`.

## Details

The new IL is planned to be the first in a series of ILs that all use
flat procedure bodies with goto-esque control-flow constructs. This
structure works well for the stage during compilation where data- and
control-flow analysis is needed, but where the live range(s) of locals
can still change.

Future passes that are currently planned to use this structure are:
borrow checking, cursor inference, move analysis, destructor injection,
and inlining.

### Implementation

`pass30` is effectively split into two passes. Turning the structure
control-flow constructs (i.e., `If`, `Case`, `Loop`, etc.) stays in
`pass30`, while the data-flow analysis and SSA transformation moves to
`pass25` (without being modified).

Most of the `pass25` are former `pass30` tests (those concerning data-
flow analysis and SSA transformation), the rest are new tests covering
the basic `L25` to `L4` translation.

---------

Co-authored-by: Saem Ghani <saemghani+github@gmail.com>

passes/lang30.md, after:

## L30 Language

```grammar
.extends lang25
```

Instead of one flat list of statements, statements in a procedure can now be
nested:

```grammar
procdef -= (ProcDef <type_id> (Locals <type_id>*) (Stmts <stmt>+))
procdef += (ProcDef <type_id> (Locals <type_id>*) <single_stmt>)
```

The goto-based control-flow constructs are replaced with structured equivalents.

```grammar
single_stmt ::= (Stmts <stmt>+)
            |  <stmt>

choice -= (Choice <intVal> <goto>)
        | (Choice <floatVal> <goto>)
        | (Choice <intVal> <intVal> <goto>)
        | (Choice <floatVal> <floatVal> <goto>)

choice += (Choice <intVal> <single_stmt>)
        | (Choice <floatVal> <single_stmt>)

stmt -= (Join   <cont_name>)
      | (Except <cont_name> <local>)
      | <exit>
      | <goto>

stmt += (Block <single_stmt>)
      | (Loop <single_stmt>)
      | (If <value> <single_stmt> <single_stmt>?)
      | (Case <type_id> <simple> <choice>+)
      | (CheckedCall <proc> <value>*)
      | (CheckedCall <type_id> <value>+)
      | (CheckedCallAsgn <local> <proc> <value>*)
      | (CheckedCallAsgn <local> <type_id> <value>+)
      | (Return <value>?)
      | (Raise <value>)
      | (Unreachable)
```

*Future consideration:* If-then-else support could be removed, which would
reduce the IL's surface area and make translation slightly simpler.

`Break` is used to break out of an enclosing `Block`, `Loop`, `If`, or `Case`.
A depth value of '0' refers to the most enclosing block.

```grammar
stmt += (Break depth:<int>)
```

*Rationale:* allowing `Break` to target `If` and `Case` makes translation
simpler and removes the need for some `Block`s.
