spec/manual.md, before:

This document provides an overview of the current meta-language. It's a work-
in-progress and not intended as an exhaustive description of the language.

The meta-language is a functional language with some declarative extensions,
with a focus on defining/describing the semantics of programming languages.

## Types

There are three built-in primitive types:
* `z` - integer numbers
* `r` - rational numbers
* `bool` - `true` and `false`

There are some additional primitive types, such as `void` and `all`, but
they're not available for use directly.

Tuple, function, list (introduced with `*` prefix), and sum types (introduced
with `+` infix) are also supported. Tuples are constructed with the `(1, 2)`
syntax; the other types have no dedicated terms inhabiting them, only
identifiers to whom a value of the respective type was bound.

Except for type constructors, all non-pattern expressions have a type.

### Data Types

Abstract data types are defined inductively via the `typ` declaration:
```nim
typ MyList:
  Nil
  Cons(z, MyList)
```

`Nil` and `Cons` are *constructors* of `MyList`. `Cons(1, Cons(2, Nil))` is a
*construction* and has type `MyList`. Multiple constructors may share the same
name (i.e., they can be overloaded), but they must not have overlapping
signatures. Constructor names can also be overloaded by other data types.

`subtype` is similar to the `typ` declaration, with the addition that it
verifies that the defined type is a subtype of the specified base type. An
abstract data type `A` is the subtype of another abstract data type `B` if
all constructions of `A` are also constructions of `B`.

## Functions

Functions are defined via the `function` declaration:
```nim
function map, z -> z:
  ...
```

The first argument is the function's name, the second argument the type (which
must be a function type).

Functions are not required to be total: the `fail` expression marks some input
as "unmapped" (i.e., not part of the function's domain).

### Function Bodies

Function bodies can use expressions and statements not available elsewhere.

#### Case

```nim
function map, z -> z:
  case _
  of 1: 2
  of 2: 3
  of 3: fail
  of z_1: z_1 + 1
```

The `case` expression is used for pattern matching. The labels in the `of`
branches are pattern expressions, with each branch being in its own scope.

`of` branches are tried top to bottom. If none matches for the given value, the
function fails.

Top-level `case` expressions may use `_` as the operand to use the function's
input as the argument.

#### If

```nim
if a == 1:
  2
else:
  3
```

Evaluates either the first or second branch, depending on whether the condition
evaluates to true or false. A missing `else` branch is treated like
`else: fail`.

#### Let

```nim
let z_1 = 10
```

`let` statements may appear before `let` statements and `if` or `case`
expressions. They introduce named bindings that exists for the duration of
the surrounding scope.

## Relations

Relations are inductively-defined relations between values.

Example:
```nim
relation length(inp MyList, out z):
  axiom "empty", Nil, 0
  rule "non-empty":
    premise rel(MyList_1, z_1)
    conclusion Cons(z, MyList_1), 1 + z_1
```

Relation parameters must be marked as either inputs or outputs, which affects
how the relation may be used. A relation with output parameters must only be
used in the `premise` statement of a `rule` -- relations with no output
parameter may be used like normal functions.

`axiom name, a, b` is a short-hand for `rule name: conclusion a, b`, meant for
unconstrained rules that always hold for their values.

The `premise` statement specifies a relation that must hold true for the rule
to apply. Expressions appearing in the invocation's input positions must be
value expressions, the others must be patterns.

The `where pat, term` statement specifies a pattern that must match what the
term on the right evaluates to for the rule to apply. When `pat` is a single
identifier pattern, it can also be written as `let pat = term`.

The `condition` statement specifies a boolean term that must evaluate to `true`
for the rule to apply.

The `conclusion` must come last and appear exactly one time. It defines how the
parameters the rule covers look like. Expressions in input positions must be
*patterns*, expressions in output positions must be value expressions.

## Patterns

Patterns are made up of constructions, type names, and binders. They also
support matching of repetitions via `*x` (zero or more) and `+x` (one or more)
within data type constructions.

### Bindings

Within a pattern context, suffixing the name of a type with a `_x` (where `x`
can be any number of identifier not including an underscore) introduces a
named binding.

Commit message:

improve the meta-language's type system (#151)
## Summary

* assign a dedicated type to constructor patterns in a `typ` declaration
* distinguish between `A` and `A()` (value vs. nullary construction)
* slightly clean up type checking and speed it up

## Details

The type checker and type system are changed as follows:
* patterns representing types are now treated as such, using the
  `tkPat` type kind
* distinguish between `A` and `A()`. Both are now disjoint terms
* the `tkData` type kind is removed. `typ` and `subtype` declaration
  now create (potentially recursive) sums of pattern types

The changes allow for more narrow typing of value constructions.
Previously, they had to be typed as the *data type* matching the
construction, which is unnecessarily broad and necessitated `or` types
in order to be able to resolve ambiguity (i.e., when a construction
is covered by more than one data type).

As a side-effect of the more narrow typing, the type checker has to run
pattern matching less often, which significantly speeds up type
checking.

What's still missing is type relationship computation for pattern types.

Finally:
* the construction/value translation logic in `spectest` now that `A`
  and `A()` are different
* `queryshell.getDefault` is updated to handle the new `tkPat` type kind
* the pattern matching logic for the `interpreter` is updated to handle
  the new `tkPat` type kind

spec/manual.md, after:

This document provides an overview of the current meta-language. It's a work-
in-progress and not intended as an exhaustive description of the language.

The meta-language is a functional language with some declarative extensions,
with a focus on defining/describing the semantics of programming languages.

## Types

There are three built-in primitive types:
* `z` - integer numbers
* `r` - rational numbers
* `bool` - `true` and `false`

There are some additional primitive types, such as `void` and `all`, but
they're not available for use directly.

Tuple, function, list (introduced with `*` prefix), and sum types (introduced
with `+` infix) are also supported. Tuples are constructed with the `(1, 2)`
syntax; the other types have no dedicated terms inhabiting them, only
identifiers to whom a value of the respective type was bound.

Except for type constructors, all non-pattern expressions have a type.

### Custom Data Types

Custom data types are introduced via the `typ` declaration:
```nim
typ MyList:
  Nil
  Cons(z, MyList)
```

`Nil` introduces, if not present already, a nominal unit type, which is
inhabited by the single term `Nil`.

`Cons` is a *constructor*; `Cons(z, MyList)` is a *pattern type*, inhabited by
all terms matching the pattern (e.g., `Cons(1, Nil)`, `Cons(2, Nil)`,
`Cons(3, Cons(1, Nil)))`, etc.). A *pattern type* appearing within a `typ`
declaration automatically introduces, if not present already, the given
constructor and pattern type.

`MyList` is the sum between `Nil` and `Cons(z, MyList)`. There must be no
overlap between the summands -- the set of terms inhabiting a summand must
be disjoint from those inhabiting other summands.

`subtype` is similar to the `typ` declaration, with the addition that it
verifies that the defined type is a subtype of the specified base type. An
abstract data type `A` is the subtype of another abstract data type `B` if
all constructions of `A` are also constructions of `B`.

## Functions

Functions are defined via the `function` declaration:
```nim
function map, z -> z:
  ...
```

The first argument is the function's name, the second argument the type (which
must be a function type).

Functions are not required to be total: the `fail` expression marks some input
as "unmapped" (i.e., not part of the function's domain).

### Function Bodies

Function bodies can use expressions and statements not available elsewhere.

#### Case

```nim
function map, z -> z:
  case _
  of 1: 2
  of 2: 3
  of 3: fail
  of z_1: z_1 + 1
```

The `case` expression is used for pattern matching. The labels in the `of`
branches are pattern expressions, with each branch being in its own scope.

`of` branches are tried top to bottom. If none matches for the given value, the
function fails.

Top-level `case` expressions may use `_` as the operand to use the function's
input as the argument.

#### If

```nim
if a == 1:
  2
else:
  3
```

Evaluates either the first or second branch, depending on whether the condition
evaluates to true or false. A missing `else` branch is treated like
`else: fail`.

#### Let

```nim
let z_1 = 10
```

`let` statements may appear before `let` statements and `if` or `case`
expressions. They introduce named bindings that exists for the duration of
the surrounding scope.

## Relations

Relations are inductively-defined relations between values.

Example:
```nim
relation length(inp MyList, out z):
  axiom "empty", Nil, 0
  rule "non-empty":
    premise rel(MyList_1, z_1)
    conclusion Cons(z, MyList_1), 1 + z_1
```

Relation parameters must be marked as either inputs or outputs, which affects
how the relation may be used. A relation with output parameters must only be
used in the `premise` statement of a `rule` -- relations with no output
parameter may be used like normal functions.

`axiom name, a, b` is a short-hand for `rule name: conclusion a, b`, meant for
unconstrained rules that always hold for their values.

The `premise` statement specifies a relation that must hold true for the rule
to apply. Expressions appearing in the invocation's input positions must be
value expressions, the others must be patterns.

The `where pat, term` statement specifies a pattern that must match what the
term on the right evaluates to for the rule to apply. When `pat` is a single
identifier pattern, it can also be written as `let pat = term`.

The `condition` statement specifies a boolean term that must evaluate to `true`
for the rule to apply.

The `conclusion` must come last and appear exactly one time. It defines how the
parameters the rule covers look like. Expressions in input positions must be
*patterns*, expressions in output positions must be value expressions.

## Patterns

Patterns are made up of constructions, type names, and binders. They also
support matching of repetitions via `*x` (zero or more) and `+x` (one or more)
within data type constructions.

### Bindings

Within a pattern context, suffixing the name of a type with a `_x` (where `x`
can be any number of identifier not including an underscore) introduces a
named binding.
